# Develop Instructions

### NOTE
Use the data from the analysis phase to develop the training materials.  This will help you understand the requirements and expectations for the development phase of the training development process.

## Learning Objectives
*(Review TP 350-70-14, Par 7-6)*
Instructions:  
Convert the critical tasks or educational topics into learning objectives using the approved verbs. Give each objective a temporary ID number. Determine the General Learning Outcome each objective supports, as well as the Learning Domain and Mastery Level. Finally, determine the Criticality Standard for each objective.
## Lesson Outline Matrix (LOM)
Determine the structure for your lesson based on all the previous steps and the referenced Doctrine. If your lesson teaches a single task or educational topic, write the action of the corresponding learning objective in the TLO. If your lesson will teach two or more tasks or educational topics, write the action statements of the corresponding learning objectives in the appropriate ELOs. You will then have to write a TLO that encompasses all ELOs. Include the domain/level and criticality standard of all objectives you include in your outline. If using ELOs, do not include a criticality standard for the TLO. NOTE: Insert all action statements in the areas marked in purple italic font.

## Risk Assessment
*(ATP 5-19, 14 April 2014, paras 1-13 thru 1-46)*
Using the information gathered from the task analysis, the initial risk assessment identifies potential hazards and risks associated with the training tasks. This assessment helps in developing controls to mitigate or eliminate these risks.
