
### NOTE
Read through this section on the Analysis Instructions before you begin the analysis process.  This will help you understand the requirements and expectations for the analysis phase of the training development process.

When ready go to the [Developer's Guide](./0.Developer_Guide.md) to begin the development process.

# Problem Statement
(TP 350-70-14, Par  3-7)
Write a problem statement to specify the performance gap.  For example: "The problem is… Military Intelligence students are not completing status reports to include all elements specified by the standard."

# Scope of the Performance Problem:
(TP 350-70-14, Par 3-9)
Identify the extent (isolated or widespread), gravity (seriousness of the problem concerning safety, environmental, or security aspects), and impact (mission consequences of a sub-standard individual or unit performance) of the problem.

# Needs Analysis (DOTmLPF-P)
(TP 350-70-14, Par 3-3, Table 3-1)
Perform a DOTMLPF Analysis on your problem statement:  
   • Determine whether or not each DOTMLPF domain applies to your problem statement.  For each applicable domain:  
            − Identify the current state of the domain as it pertains to your problem statement and  
            − Propose actions that may alleviate the problem  
   • Answer the three questions on the DOTMLPF tab that are below the DOTMLPF analysis to prepare for goal analysis.

# Goal/Topic Analysis-(as required)

Complete Goal Analysis based on the problem statement and needs analysis to write your SCOPE and OUTCOME statements.  
Complete a Topic Analysis to identify topical areas (i.e., Major/Minor Topics) to be covered by training arranged in a hierarchy. 

# Task Analysis / Total Tasks Inventory (TTI)

Create a total task inventory (TTI) (5 tasks). Ensure task titles are written according to business rules, using action verbs aligned with the learning domain and level per TP 350-70-1 Appendix E.

# Difficulty-Importance-Frequency (DIF):

Perform a Difficulty-Importance-Frequency (DIF) Model analysis on the tasks listed in the TTI to identify potential critical tasks. Update total task inventory (TTI) with potential critical tasks to present to CTSSB (5 tasks).

# Individual Task  
Analysis: 

Select the two tasks with the highest training priority from the DIF Model analysis and conduct an "Individual Task Analysis" on each, ensuring to include:  
   • Task Title (from TTI)  
   • Task Condition Statement  
   • Task Standard Statement  
   • Performance Steps (You must have a minimum of three performance steps but you need not 'complete' the task in three steps)   • For Each Performance Step:  
            − References  
            − Supporting and Supported Individual Tasks (if applicable)  
            − Environmental and Safety             
            − Knowledge  
            − Skills  
            − Resources, Materiels  
            − Step Notes / Cues (if applicable)

# Skills and Knowledge Matrix:

For each of the two tasks you analyzed in the previous step, complete a Skill and Knowledge Matrix and answer the questions below the S&K Matrix tables.

# Performance Measures:

Complete the Performance Measures for the two tasks you completed in the Individual Task Analysis.   
Complete the three steps and any sub-steps needed.  Answer the questions using the drop-down boxes.   
Select whether the step has sub-steps [Yes or No].  
Select whether the performance measures are a "Product," "Process," or "Combination."  
Indicate where the performance measures are based on the type of performance standard used by selecting either "Go," "No Go," or "N/A."

# Target Audience Analysis:

Create a Target Audience Profile (TAP) Analysis for the trainees who will engage in the training. This should include all critical characteristics needed to perform each critical task, including any prerequisite skills.

# Gap and Resource Analysis:

Perform a Gap and resource Analysis to update the scope statement and identify resources required to deliver training.  
Additional instructions are provided on the sheet.


## Approved Verbs
These are the verbs to use when writing task titles.  They are aligned with the learning domain and level per TP 350-70-1 Appendix E.

These verbs are ranked by the level of learning they represent.  The higher the level, the more complex the learning.  The levels are:
- Remember
- Understand
- Apply
- Analyze
- Evaluate
- Create

Adjust, Administer, Align, Analyze, Annotate, Apply, Approve, Assault, Assemble, Assess, Attack, Breach, Brief, Calculate, Camouflage, Challenge, Change, Check, Clear, Close, Collect, Communicate, Compare, Complete, Comply, Compute, Conduct, Configure, Confirm, Connect, Consolidate, Construct, Control, Coordinate, Correct, Correlate, Counsel, Counter, Cross, Debrief, Deconflict, Decontaminate, Defend, Define, Deliver, Demonstrate, Deploy, Designate, Destroy, Detect, Determine, Develop, Direct, Disassemble, Disconnect, Disengage, Dismantle, Dispatch, Displace, Distribute, Don, Download, Draft, Edit, Emplace, Employ, Enforce, Engage, Ensure, Enter, Erect, Escort, Establish, Estimate, Evacuate, Evade, Evaluate, Exchange, Extend, Extract, Facilitate, Fire, Forward, Fuel, Guard, Identify, Implement, Infiltrate, Inform, Initialize, Input, Inspect, Install, Integrate, Interpret, Inventory, Investigate, Issue, Land, Launch, Lay, Lead, Load, Localize, Locate, Lubricate, Maintain, Manage, Mark, Measure, Modify, Monitor, Mount, Move, Navigate, Negotiate, Neutralize, Notify, Observe, Obtain, Occupy, Open, Operate, Order, Organize, Orient, Pack, Patrol, Perform, Place, Plan, Plot, Position, Post, Predict, Prepare, Present, Prevent, Process, Produce, Project, Protect, Provide, Publish, React, Read, Receive, Recognize, Recommend, Reconnoiter, Record, Recover, Reduce, Refine, Register, Release, Relocate, Remove, Reorganize, Repair, Replace, Report, Request, Resolve, Restore, Retrieve, Review, Revise, Rig, Schedule, Secure, Select, Send, Set up, Store, Submit, Task, Test, Tow, Track, Train, Translate, Transmit, Transport, Treat, Troubleshoot, Turn, Unload, Update, Validate, Verify, Wear, Write, Zero



